Data Structure Definition:


1) why do we need data structure?
We need data structures to organize data in a program and in storage inorder to search, insert, delete and sort data in an
efficient way

answer:

2) List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Real world data storage
Programmer Tools
Modeling

3) what is an Array?
An array is a contagious block of memory used to store objects of the same type and size  

4) what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
An array has a fixed size defined at instantiation while an ArrayList can resize 
dynamically growing to accommodate new added data or shrink on the deletion of data.

5) what is LinkedList?
A LinkedList is a data structure that is composed of a group of nodes linked together by pointers where each node know the location of the next and the previous node only.
Unlike an array a link list does not require a contagious block of memory  

6) what is queue?
A queue is a FIFO data structure 

7) what is stack?
A stack is a LIFO data structure

8) what is FIFO and LIFO?
First in first out and last in first out

9) what is the order of complexity?
Uses Big-O notation to measure the time and space required to perform an operation using a 
 given data structure.

10)what is the best case to search an element from an array?O(1)

11)what is the worst case to search an element from an array?O(n)

12) what is tree in data structure?
A tree is a data structure that emulates a 
hierarchical tree structure composed of linked nodes. A tree is an acyclic connected
 graph with each node having zero or more children nodes and at most one parent node
 with the exception of the root node which does not have any parent nodes.  

13) what is graph in data structure?
Graphs often have a shape dictated by a physical or abstract problem and are composed of two set of elements 
nodes and edges with the nodes being interconnected with edges. Graphs may be 
directed, non-directed and weighted 

14) what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?

15) What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
    Binary tree and Graph
    
16) How HashMap works in java?
Is a data structure that use a key value pair system to archive and retrieve data where the 
key can be of any data/object type and used to reference any data/object type, data value 
stored in the HashMap. Underlying the HashMap uses a hashing function to store an retrieve 
data.  

17)What is Big-(O)-notation?
 Big-(O)-notation is a shorthand way to say how efficient a computer algorithm is

18)Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
   Selection Sort	O(N^2)
   Insertion Sort   O(N^2)
   Bubble Sort      O(N^2)
   Merge Sort      O(N*logN)
   
    
19) Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of adding element.
  b)In terms of removing element.
  c)In terms of searching element.

	Data Structure     Adding Element     Removing Element  Searching Element
Array                        O(1)                               O(N)
Ordered Array
Stack                        
Queue
Linked List
Binary Tree
Red-Black Tree
2-3-4 Tree
Hash Table
Heap
Graph









